%Empieza configuracion
\setstretch{1.0}
\titleformat{\chapter}{\Huge\bfseries}{\thechapter}{0 pt}{\rule{340 pt}{3 pt}\\}
\titlespacing{\chapter}{100 pt}{-25 pt}{40 pt}[10 pt]	
\pagestyle{fancy}
\fancyhead[RO,RE]{\thepage}
\fancyfoot[CO,CE]{}
%Termina configuracion

\chapter*{Justification}
\addcontentsline{toc}{chapter}{Justification}
\setstretch{1.5} %Regresa el interlineado a 1.5

\normalsize
\noindent

Nowadays, there are multiple examples of IoT systems with large processing
capabilities, which could be exploited to avoid sending data to a centralized
processing system. Despite of this characteristic, we frequently see that there
is a large variety of IoT applications that continue sending data over the
Internet to a centralized processing system, without using the processing
capabilities of the IoT device.

There are several IoT examples in which the system performs remote control of
the environment through the Internet. In all of them it can be seen that
applying the IoT technology it is possible to improve the operation and system
flexibility by using the wireless sensor network instead of the traditional
wired network. In several cases, it is observed that such systems dedicate a
general-purpose microprocessor just to transmit data to the centralized control
system; even though, the problem being solved in such type of centralized
control systems is a simple conditional rule.

However, there are other projects that use ultra-low power microprocessors.
There are several industrial applications that use embedded systems for
autonomous robots. In such scenarios embedded platforms are chosen due to their
low power consumption and adequate processing capabilities. 

Projects where an embedded system is the central processing unit are not
common. Due to the fact that traditional centralized processing systems are
used to collect data, there is an excessive use of IoT devices for transmitting
that data. If this trend continues the increase in the number of IoT systems
will lead to an explosion in the volume of data collected, transmitted and
processed.

There are sources that demonstrate that the total amount of user data to be
stored, or processed doubles every two years. The first problems due to this
trend are currently being faced by industry; such is the case of the aircraft
industry.

In 2013, the Virgin Atlantic airline announced that the Boeing 787 aircraft was
going to be one of the first highly connected planes. Each one of these planes
was expected to create over half a terabyte of data per transatlantic flight.
Due to the costs of handling and transmitting such amount of data daily, the
airline started to look for cloud based solutions inside the airplanes. This is
an expensive solution; because the cost in space and energy required to handle
a cloud based solution inside an airplane is too high.

As we can see, current IoT architectures are not efficiently using the
computing resources they have. In addition to this, the lack of standard
methodologies to design distributed self-sustainable networks of IoT systems is
causing problems in the industry. Such and other reasons, which will be
discussed through the document, justify pursuing a quantitative comparison of
distributed low power computing systems to high performance computing systems
in terms of power efficiency. 

\clearpage
